
----- PAGE 1/20 -----
Citation: Chen, Z.; Jiang, Y.; Song, X.;
Chen, L. A Survey on
Zero-Knowledge Authentication for
Internet of Things. Electronics 2023,
12, 1145. https://doi.org/10.3390/
electronics12051145
Academic Editor: Andrei Kelarev
Received: 31 January 2023
Revised: 18 February 2023
Accepted: 22 February 2023
Published: 27 February 2023
Copyright:
© 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
electronics
Review
A Survey on Zero-Knowledge Authentication for
Internet of Things
Zhigang Chen 1,2
, Yuting Jiang 3,*, Xinxia Song 4 and Liqun Chen 5
1
College of Digital Technology and Engineering, Ningbo University of Finance and Economics,
Ningbo 315175, China
2
School of Information and Intelligent Engineering, Zhejiang Wanli University, Ningbo 315100, China
3
State Key Laboratory of Integrated Service Networks (ISN), Xidian University, Xi’an 710071, China
4
School of Junior, Zhejiang Wanli University, Ningbo 315100, China
5
Department of Computer Science, University of Surrey, Surrey GU2 7XH, UK
*
Correspondence: jiangyuting@foxmail.com
Abstract: The Internet of Things (IoT) is ubiquitous in our lives. However, the inherent vulnerability
of IoT smart devices can lead to the destruction of networks in untrustworthy environments. There-
fore, authentication is a necessary tool to ensure the legitimacy of nodes and protect data security.
Naturally, the authentication factors always include various sensitive users’ information, such as
passwords, ID cards, even biological information, etc. How to prevent privacy leakage has always
been a problem faced by the IoT. Zero-knowledge authentication is a crucial cryptographic technology
that uses authenticates nodes on the networks without revealing identity or any other data entered
by users. However, zero-knowledge proof (ZKP) requires more complex data exchange protocols
and more data transmission compared to traditional cryptography technologies. To understand how
zero-knowledge authentication works in IoT, we produce a survey on zero-knowledge authentication
in privacy-preserving IoT in the paper. First, we overview the IoT architecture and privacy, including
security challenges and open question in different IoT layers. Next, we overview zero-knowledge
authentication and provide a comprehensive analysis of designing zero-knowledge authentication
protocols in various IoT networks. We summarize the advantages of ZKP-based authentication in IoT.
Finally, it summarizes the potential problems and future directions of ZKP in IoT.
Keywords: zero-knowledge proof; Internet of Things; authentication; security
1. Introduction
The Internet of Things (IoT) is to put human’s economic life and social life, production
activities and personal activities in an intelligent environment. It realizes the sensing,
identiﬁcation, control of objects, networked interconnection, and intelligent processing
of organic unity in a dynamic environment. The great advantage of IoT is that the fed-
erations of IoT devices that process data provide unprecedented opportunities to solve
unmanageable internet-scale problems. In recent years, with the rapid development of
smart devices and high-speed communication networks, the scale of the IoT continues
to expand. It offers numerous services in society, industry, and government, by enabling
different communication patterns. Meanwhile, IoT devices and systems can suffer from
devastating security breaches. The proliferation of smart devices bring potential risks being
connecting to the Internet, such as unauthorized node tampering, intelligent awareness of
the node’s own security, or counterfeit attacks. Therefore, determining the legitimacy of
nodes in a complex IoT is necessary but difﬁcult.
As is well-known, authentication is an important method of connecting distrustful
nodes. It highly ensures that the connected nodes are legitimate and blocks malicious
attempts to successfully access the IoT system in an untrusted environment. Naturally,
the authentication factors are always sensitive, such as passwords, personal identiﬁcation
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145. https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics12051145
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/electronics

----- PAGE 2/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
2 of 20
numbers (PINs), face recognition, ﬁngerprint, etc. The anonymity and privacy of legitimate
nodes cannot be protected in traditional authentication protocols. Especially, data and other
sensitive information can be intercepted easily by an adversary during the transmission of
vulnerable devices for IoT, causing a great threat to users. In the dynamic IoT environment,
the need for a lightweight, ﬂexible, and decentralized framework has emerged to address
these threats.
Zero-knowledge authentication relies on zero-knowledge proof (ZKP) [1], which is
a fundamental notion in cryptography that enables a prover to convince a veriﬁer of the
truth of a statement while leaking nothing. It has three core properties:
•
Completeness: The veriﬁer accepts the prover’s statement if it is true;
•
Soundness: The veriﬁer rejects the prover’s statement if it is wrong;
•
Zero-Knowledge: The veriﬁer grasps nothing from the interaction other than the fact
that the statement is true.
To protect the privacy of users, the zero-knowledge authentication protocol attracts
more and more attention. The reason is that ZKP has two main advantages over traditional
password-based approaches and public key infrastructure (PKI). The ﬁrst reason is zero-
knowledge, which enables anonymous communications. It also avoids forgery, man-in-the-
middle attacks (MIMA), replay attacks, password attacks, etc. The second reason is low
consumption, which means less network trafﬁc. Zero-knowledge authentication can reduce
the computation complexity and the length of both the proofs by other techniques, such as
the Merkle tree. Motivated by the features of ZKP, the main purpose of this survey is to
present an overview of zero-knowledge authentication protocols in the IoT domain.
1.1. Contributions
•
First, we categorize the privacy challenges according to architectural layers of IoT.
•
Next, we discuss the development process and advantages of ZKP in various IoT envi-
ronments and provide a full analysis of properties of zero-knowledge authentication
that have been proposed in the IoT environment.
•
Furthermore, we summarize the application of zero-knowledge authentication in
different networks of IoT.
•
Finally, we summarize the challenges and future research directions for ZKP in IoT.
1.2. Organization
Section 2 provides an overview of IoT, its architectures, and privacy issues. Section 3
discusses the requirements of authentication for IoT. An overview of zero-knowledge proof
is provided in Section 4. Section 5 analyze the advantages of ZKP-based authentication IoT
and its application in different networks. Section 6 summarizes the challenges and future
research directions. We conclude in Section 7.
2. IoT Architecture and Privacy
2.1. IoT Architecture
IoT architecture is the top-level design of IoT development, which is related to the
compatibility, scalability, and interoperability between upstream and downstream products
of the IoT industry chain. Similar to the human senses, nerves, and brain, IoT also needs
three processes to deal with problems: comprehensive sensing, reliable transmission, and
intelligent processing. Therefore, the architecture of the IoT system has three layers [2]:
Perception, Network, and Application. The characteristic details description of the related
protocols of each layer are presented in Table 1. This architecture provides a general security
framework that covers all the components of the IoT and the threats it may face, as shown
in Figure 1.

----- PAGE 3/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
3 of 20
Architecture
Smart Environment,
Smart Business,
Smart E-health, etc.
Application Layer
4G, 5G, WiFi, CDMA GSW, etc.
Network Layer
Sensor Network, RFID, Home Network, 
Control Gateway, etc.
Perception Layer
Low memory
Low computing power
Low battery power
Low bandwidth
Low power wireless 
communication media
Lack of hosted-based 
defence mechanism
Lack of security standard 
Security Challenges
Communication 
channel
Data
Sensors
Confidentiality
Integrity
Key management 
system
Security architecture
Access control
Authentiacation
Figure 1. Architecture, bottleneck, and challenge in IoTs.
Table 1. The architecture of the Internet of Things.
Layer
Characteristic
Detailed
Description
Related
Protocols
Perception
Comprehensive
sensing
Utilize RFID, sensors, 1D/2D Code, GPS,
and other information sensing devices
to obtain information about objects at
any time, including user location,
individual preferences, physical
condition, ambient temperature,
humidity, etc.
[3–8]
Network
Reliable
transmission
Accurate and real-time delivery of
information about objects through
various network integrations, service
integrations, terminal integrations,
and operation management integrations.
[9–14]
Application
Intelligent
processing
Utilize various intelligent computing
technologies to analyze and process
the big data and information obtained
from the perception layer, to achieve
actual speciﬁc application services
such as intelligent identiﬁcation,
positioning, tracking, monitoring, etc.
[15–20]

----- PAGE 4/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
4 of 20
2.2. IoT Security and Privacy
Compared with other web-based information systems, IoT faces more cyber security
and privacy threats of information collection, aggregation, transmission, decision making,
and controlling. The main reason is the vulnerability of IoT devices and networks since
they are resource-constrained.
Macroscopically, in the perception layer, these devices have low computing power and
low memory with small battery life; in the network layer, IoT devices deliver information
via the low-power wireless communication media and low bandwidth; in the application
layer, they lack host-based defense mechanisms and security standardization. These three
aspects pose great threats to IoT security, including data security and sensor security in
unsafe communication channels.
Microscopically, the design of details of privacy-preserving IoT is a big challenge as
well. In IoT, sensitive data can be easily intercepted by adversaries or collected by dishonest
devices, such as timestamps, heart rates, daily activities, etc. Exposure to the sensitive
data could lead to criminal activity, or even result in serious injury. Unfortunately, the
traditional data security and privacy-preserving mechanisms are no longer suitable for
resource-constrained devices. Therefore, IoT faces the following challenges: lightweight
algorithms, distributed access control, recourse-constrained security architecture, and
efﬁcient privacy-persevering mechanisms. In the following, we propose an overview of the
privacy concerns and solutions according to the IoT architecture and summarize them in
Figure 1.
2.2.1. Network Layer
During data transfer, it is possible to be handed over to one or more networks of
different architectures. A common method is to use encrypted data during transmission.
Therefore, how to manage the keys and how to design architecture are big issues in IoT.
IoT is the integration of multiple heterogeneous networks, it should deal with com-
patibility issues between the different networks that are prone to security issues. Key
management mechanisms can efﬁciently solve the problem that establishes the junction of
the relation between nodes because legitimate nodes need valid common keys for effective
supervision of personal data or corporate secrets. Although a large number of methods
have been proposed, the high mobility of users in the IoT, the complexity of afﬁliation
and collaboration, etc., and the difﬁculty of balancing security levels and resource con-
sumption, in particular, have placed higher demands on key management mechanisms.
For distributed sensor networks (DSNs), Eschenauer et al. [9] ﬁrst proposed a key man-
agement scheme to meet its safety and operational needs. Among the nodes of a random
graph, they employed a probabilistic key sharing technique to realize shared-key discov-
ery, path–key establishment, key revocation, and so on. Then, Liu et al. [10] proposed
a general framework to establish pairwise keys and reduce the computation of sensors’
requirements in DSNs. Furthermore, Du et al. [11] proposed a pairwise key predistribution
scheme in distributed sensor networks, which greatly improves the networks’ resilience.
To cause two sensors to share a common key generated using electrocardiogram (EKG)
signals, Venkatasubramanian et al. [12] proposed a key agreement scheme in a Body Sensor
Network. However, many works that establish key management mechanisms are under
trusted third parties, which are not appropriate for an untrusted environment in IoT.
Data networks, especially wireless, are congested during data dissemination due to
the large number of devices sending data, resulting in a denial of service provisioning,
spooﬁng, eavesdropping, etc. While some solutions from traditional Internet systems are
applicable to the IoT space, the processing and communication capabilities of IoT devices
are inherently limited. These capabilities of IoT devices hinder the use of completely
developed security suites. Bonetto et al. [13] described a general security architecture
along with its basic procedures, then discussed how its elements interact with the con-
strained communication stack. The general security architecture and its basic procedures
are described by Bonetto et al. [13]. The study then discusses how to securely interact with

----- PAGE 5/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
5 of 20
restricted smart IoT devices. The approach proposed in [13] is lightweight and protects
IoT devices with powerful encryption and authentication methods. OSCAR, introduced
by Vu˘cini´c et al. [14], is an architecture for end-to-end security in the IoT. The architecture
authorizes the server to provide users with secret access, enabling them to call for resources
from restricted CoAP nodes. Based on the amended secret sharing scheme, Jiang et al. [21]
proposed a secure and scalable IoT storage system that supports reliability, ﬂexibility, and
scalability at both data and system layers. However, a more stable security architecture is
still needed in the face of massive data and complex network environments.
2.2.2. Perception Layer
IoT devices need to collect various data from the physical world, process the data,
and store it in the network’s database Therefore, nodes identity authentication and access
control to the data are two main techniques to ensure that only legitimate users can use the
relevant data, and control the operation of the system.
Within the IoT, many different types of the device will interact. The access control
system is a popular technique to check devices’ credentials, in which principals and verbs
are attached to data items. Then, they decide about devices’ access to services and as-
sets. Access control can be divided into two categories: attribute-based encryption (ABE)
and identity-based encryption (IBE). ABE encrypts messages based on attributes, without
concern for the identity of the recipient, and only users who meet the attribute require-
ments can decrypt the ciphertext. Based on key-policy ABE, Yu et al. [3] proposed a
distributed data access control scheme in wireless sensor networks (WSNs), called FDAC.
This scheme enforces ﬁne-grained access control over the sensor data that can resist pow-
erful attacks such as sensor leakage and user colluding. Based on ciphertext-policy ABE,
Picazo-Sanchez et al. [4] designed public-subscribe protocols in wireless body area net-
works (WBANs), to ensure ﬁne-grained and conﬁdentiality access control. Hu et al. [5]
proposed an identity-based location system, ensuring that users’ location information can
be accessed by some authorized users during emergencies. However, the access control sys-
tems based on these old cards and cryptographic protocols have several security ﬂaws and
can be easily attacked. Ensuring access control is correctly enforced across such networks
of heterogeneous devices would be very difﬁcult.
In an untrusted environment, authentication enables the node to use some tech-
niques to prove its legitimacy, including identity authentication and data authentication.
Liu et al. [6] designed an authentication protocol for the end nodes in an IoT system, where
each node has a unique address in communication. Kalra et al. [7] proposed an ECC-
based key establishment technique for IoT that can prevent replay attacks, key control
attacks, man-in-the-middle attacks, and eavesdropping. Dwivedi et al. [8] proposed an
efﬁcient zero-knowledge-based authentication scheme that authenticates devices on the
networks without knowing the information about user identity or revealing any other
data entered by users. This approach is mainly suitable for lightweight devices. An ef-
ﬁcient zero-knowledge authentication scheme for lightweight devices was proposed by
Dwivedi et al. [8]. This scheme allows for authenticating devices without knowing the
user’s identity or other information. However, the cost of computation and communication
in traditional authentication schemes is still high. Therefore, these schemes are not suitable
for smart IoT devices due to limitations in memory, energy, and computing power.
2.2.3. Application Layer
Some IoT users submit sensitive data to the collection server, especially in cloud-based
IoT. It is very important to anonymize the data before submission so that the collector
cannot track it back to the submitter. The bottleneck is that the traditional data protection
schemes have difﬁculty supporting the collection, transmission, and processing of big data,
which can cause catastrophic damage to data in the event of an accidental malicious attack.
This can be catastrophic to data when an unexpected malicious attack happens. Therefore,
it is critical to ensure the integrity, privacy, and security of data. A data masking tool that

----- PAGE 6/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
6 of 20
simultaneously protects privacy and utility was introduced by Ukil et al. [15]. In IoT data
management, the work provides a negotiation-based architecture for the utility–privacy
trade-off. Doukas et al. [16] proposed a gateway (GW)-based system that aggregates sensor
data. The security issues are solved using PKI data encryption and digital certiﬁcates.
Furthermore, by storing private data on multiple servers, Yi et al. [17] propose a feasible
method to block inside attacks.
A large number of smart devices interactive with each other greatly developing
people’s qualities of life and servers to the world economy [22], such as healthcare [23],
telecommunication [24], transportation [25], environment control [26], etc. Applications in
cognitive radio networks should also be mentioned. Recently, the applications in cognitive
radio networks are also gaining attention. ¸Sim¸sek et al. proposed a fast and lightweight
detection and ﬁlter approach for low-rate TCP targeted distributed denial of service (LD-
DoS) [18]. Sava¸sci¸ ¸Sen et al. proposed a surveillance system for the coronavirus pandemic
using inter-WBAN geographic routing [19]. Turkyilmaz et al. employed machine learning-
based malicious signal detection for cognitive radio networks [20]. From these works, we
can see that IoT is closely related to our lives.
These solutions are summarized in Table 2; we can see that IoT needs stronger
anonymity, more stable scalability, and lighter algorithms.
Table 2. Solutions to privacy-persevering IoT.
Mechanisms
Scheme
Tools
Features
Key Management
[9]
Probabilistic key sharing
Realizing shared-key discovery, path–key
creation, key revocation, etc., in DSNs.
[10]
Polynomial-based key
predistribution protocol
Establishing pairwise keys and reducing the
computation at sensors’ requirement in DSNs.
[11]
Hash-and-MAC
A pairwise key predistribution scheme to
improve the resilience of WSNs.
[12]
EKG
Key agreement scheme with EKG signals.
Security Architecture
[13]
Bootstrapping; Authentication
Lightweight technique with powerful encryption
and authentication methods.
[14]
Digital signature
An architecture for end-to-end security.
[21]
Shamir’s secret sharing scheme
Supporting reliability, ﬂexibility, and scalability
at both data and system layers.
Access Control
[3]
KP-ABE
Enforcing ﬁne-grained access control over
sensor data.
[4]
CP-ABE
Ensuring ﬁne-grained and conﬁdentiality
access control.
[5]
IBE
Ensuring user’s location information is accessed
by authorized users.
Authentication
[6]
Code book
Each node has a unique address in
communication.
[7]
ECC
Preventing replay attacks, key control attacks,
man-in-the-middle attacks, etc.
[8]
ZKP
Suitable for lightweight devices.
Conﬁdentiality and
Integrity of Data
[15]
Hierarchical-based masking
Appropriate utility–privacy tradeoff in IoT data
management.
[16]
GM
Aggregating sensor data.
[17]
Paillier Public-Key Cryptosystem
Storing private data on multiple servers.

----- PAGE 7/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
7 of 20
3. Authentication
Authentication is a pivotal role in determining the legitimacy of a user through user-
speciﬁc factors on the Internet. For example, the former is the object claiming legitimate
access to or use of the latter, and the latter is the system or service for which the claimed
legitimacy is determined by authentication. In the following, we introduce the factors and
the requirements of authentication.
3.1. Authentication Factors
The accuracy and efﬁciency of the authentication depend on a number of factors
involved in the mechanism. The main factors for authentication of users can be divided
into three categories [27]:
•
What you know (knowledge factor): Simple to deploy but easy to forget, such as security
codes, personal identiﬁcation numbers (PINs), and passwords.
•
What you have (possession factor): Convenient and easy to charge, such as ID cards,
random number generators (RNGs), and ATM cards.
•
Who you are (inherence factor): Biometric features are divided into physical and behav-
ioral features, physical features include voice, iris, ﬁngerprint, etc.; behavioral features
include signature, voice, walking gait, etc.
3.2. Authentication Requirements
Authentication is an important procedure for verifying the identity of an object (human
or a machine) [28] to prevent active attacks. The most critical security requirement is to
protect users’ privacy. However, no generic solution is feasible, as different layers fall
under different requirements in the IoT. There are authentication requirements in IoT in
the following:
•
Lightweight key establishment mechanisms and authentication scheme;
•
Frameworks for biometric-based devices;
•
Enhanced access control models with dynamics and multiple layers.
3.3. Traditional Public Key Infrastructure Authentication
Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) is the most common authentication technology on the
Internet [29,30]. People use the public key certiﬁcate method to solve the authentication
problem, similar to ID cards, passports, etc. Public key certiﬁcates bind entities to a
public key and allow other entities to verify the bond. To do this, you need a trusted
third party, called a certiﬁcation authority (CA), to guarantee the entity’s identity. The
CA is responsible for issuing certiﬁcates that contain the entity name, public key, and
other identifying information for the body. The Public key infrastructure (PKI) is a secure
service facility for hardware, software, personnel, policies, and procedures needed to create,
manage, store, distribute, and revoke public key certiﬁcates. However, the millions of
limited devices that use the IoT currently lack a centralized, scalable system for managing
private keys and identities. Centralized management also brings a great threat to privacy
security. As a result, the traditional PKI-based authentication model is relatively inefﬁcient
in the IoT.
4. Zero-Knowledge Proof
Zero-knowledge proof (ZKP) is a more secure tool with fewer processing resources
compared to traditional cryptographic techniques. In the system, the prover has some
secrets and the prover manages to prove to the veriﬁer that he has those secrets; the veriﬁer
can verify whether the prover really has those secrets, but, at the same time, the veriﬁer
does not know those secrets. In this section, we introduce a deﬁnition of ZKP, which can
can be classiﬁed as interactive and non-interactive. In interactive zero-knowledge proofs,
the prover and veriﬁer exchange many messages. In non-interactive zero-knowledge
proofs (NIZK), the prover simply sends a single convincing proof to the veriﬁer. ZKP has

----- PAGE 8/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
8 of 20
three core properties: completeness, soundness, and zero-knowledge. Therefore, it is an
appropriate tool for privacy persevering.
4.1. Interactive Zero-Knowledge Proof
The deﬁnition of the interactive zero-knowledge proof system is as follows. Common
interactive ZKP includes graph isomorphism and Σ-protocol.
Deﬁnition 1 (Interactive ZKP). Let L be a language over {0, 1}∗and (P, V) be an interactive
proof system. Let x be of sufﬁciently large length, (P, V) is an interactive zero-knowledge proof for
L if the following conditions are met:
•
Completeness: If µ ∈L, then Pr((P, V)(µ)) ≥1 −ε(|µ|).
•
Soundness: For any protocol ˆP, if x /∈L, then Pr(( ˆP, V)(µ)) ≤ε(|µ|).
•
Zero-Knowledge: | PrSimV(x) −Pr(P, V)(µ)| ≤ε(|µ|),
where ε(|µ|) is a negligible function.
The Goldreich–Micali–Wigderson (GMW) [31] protocol is an interactive zero-knowledge
proof protocol based on a graph isomorphism problem. Let G be an undirected graph
consisting of a set of vertices V and a set of edges E between the vertices. There are two
graphs G0 = (V, E0) and G1 = (V, E1) with the same number of vertices. The two graphs
are isomorphic, namely, if there is a permutation π on vertices of G0; then, any edge
between vertices of G0 can be mapped to G1. See Figure 2 for an example. Given graphs G0
and G1, reorder ABCD to CDAB maps from the ﬁrst graph to the second. In contrast, there
is no known PPT (probabilistic polynomial time) algorithm to determine whether they are
isomorphic so far. In the GMW protocol, given two public graphs G0 and G1, the prover
convinces the veriﬁer that the graph permutation π is an isomorphism between the graphs.
The detailed protocol is seen in Algorithm 1.
Figure 2. Two isomorphic graphs.
Algorithm 1 Graph Isomorphism-based ZKP.
Require: Two graphs G0, G1 with the identical set of vertices V
Ensure: Accept if there is an isomorphism π between G0 and G1; otherwise, reject.
1: The prover set up a random permutation ρ : V →V and converts either of the two
graphs. They send the resulting initiation graph H to the veriﬁer.
2: The veriﬁer in turn generates a random challenge b ←{0, 1}. Then, they ask the prover
to provide an isomorphism between Gb and H.
3: The prover can provide correct answer σ to the veriﬁer based on the randomly chosen
values b. The detailed answer is seen in Table 3.
4: The veriﬁer accepts the proof if σ(Gb) = H; otherwise, it rejects.

----- PAGE 9/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
9 of 20
Table 3. The response of prover.
Answer
Prover’s Choice
G0
G0
Veriﬁer’s
choice
G0
ρ
ρ ◦π
G1
ρ ◦π−1
ρ
To reduce the probability of a malicious prover guessing the veriﬁer’s challenge
successfully in advance, the Σ-protocol allows the veriﬁer to randomly select the challenge
from a larger space as a three-move interactive proof system. The formal deﬁnition of
Σ-protocol is as follows:
Deﬁnition 2 (Σ-protocol). Let R be a polynomial time-decidable binary relation. Let LR be the
language of statements u for which there exists a witness w such that (u, w) ∈R. For a relation R,
a Σ-protocol is a pair (P, V) of PPT interactive algorithms satisﬁed
•
m ←P(u, w): The prover evaluates the initial message m and sends it to the veriﬁer.
•
c ←S: The veriﬁer selects a uniformly random challenge c from a large set S and returns to
the prover.
•
z ←P(c): The prover evaluates a response z and sends it to the veriﬁer.
•
1/0 ←V(m, c, z): The veriﬁer examines the tuple (m, c, z) and returns 1 if he accepts the
statement; otherwise, he returns 0.
If the PPT algorithms are complete, sound, and have zero-knowledge, then it is a Σ-protocol.
If the secret that the prover wants to prove is a discrete logarithm (DL), an example of
a DL-based Σ-protocol is described in Algorithm 2. The Σ-protocol is following the relation
R = {(u, w)|u = (G, p, s, t, g, h); s, t, g, h, ∈G; s = gw; t = hw},
where G is a group equipped with prime order p, and g, h ∈G are two different generators,
and s, t ∈G are two group elements sharing the same discrete logarithm.
Algorithm 2 DL-based Σ-protocol.
Require: (G, p, g, h, s, t)
Ensure: Accept if s, t share the same discrete logarithm or otherwise reject.
1: The prover picks a random element r from Zp. Then, they compute two blinding
elements a = gr, b = hr, and send them to the veriﬁer.
2: In turn, the veriﬁer selects a uniformly random challenge c ←Zp and returns to the
prover.
3: The prover computes the element z = wc + r and sends it to the veriﬁer.
4: The veriﬁer examines whether veriﬁcation equations gz = sca, hz = tcb hold, in which
case the veriﬁer accepts the proof; otherwise, they reject it.
4.2. Non-Interactive Zero-Knowledge Proof
In practice, the huge communication overhead of the interactive ZKP is not applicable
to the IoT, which has a very large number of nodes. To deal with this issue, the idea of
non-interactive zero-knowledge proof (NIZK) [32] has emerged in the literature. The formal
deﬁnition of NIZK is described below:
Deﬁnition 3 (NIZK). A non-interactive zero-knowledge proof (NIZK) consists of the three algo-
rithms (Gen, P, V) described below:
•
crs ←Gen(1λ): On input, a security parameter λ; output, a common reference string crs.
•
π ←P(crs, u, w): On input, an instance u of some NP-language LR and the witness w;
output, a zero-knowledge proof π.

----- PAGE 10/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
10 of 20
•
1/0 ←V(crs, u, π): On input, the proof π; outputs 1 if accepting; otherwise, 0 if rejecting.
As interacting ZKP, NIZK for relation R is the complete, sound, and zero-knowledge
to be deﬁned below.
Deﬁnition 4. Let R be a polynomial time-decidable binary relation. Let LR be the language of
statements u for which there exists a witness w such that (u, w) ∈R. The non-interactive zero
knowledge proof system (Gen, P, V) satisﬁes the following conditions for all λ ∈N, all adversaries
A, and all (u, w) ∈R.
•
Completeness: Pr[V(crs, u, π) = 1|crs ←Gen(1λ), π ←P(crs, u, w)] ≈1.
•
Soundness: Pr[u /∈LR ∧V(crs, u, π) = 1|crs ←Gen(1λ), (u, π) ←A(crs, u)] ≈0.
•
Zero-Knowledge: if there is a simulator S = (S1, S2) such that
Pr[A(crs, π) = 0|crs ←Gen(1λ), (u, w) ←A(crs), π ←P(crs, u, w)]
≈Pr[A(crs, π) = 0|(crs, τ) ←S1(1λ), (u, w) ←A(crs), π ←S2(crs, τ, w)].
The Fiat–Shamir heuristic is a method for converting public coin interactive zero-
knowledge arguments into NIZK proofs.
The Fiat–Shamir heuristic is an efﬁcient way to convert interactive zero-knowledge
proofs into non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs The key idea is that the prover computes
the information used in the interactive proof, but replaces the veriﬁer’s information with a
hash of the protocol record up to that point. The algorithm is in Algorithm 3.
Algorithm 3 The Fiat–Shamir Heuristic.
Require: (crs, u, w) and a cryptographic hash function H.
Ensure: Accept or reject.
1: The prover runs P(crs, u, w) and generates the proof π. He hashes the (crs, u, π) to e
(e.g., e = H(crs, u, π)) and sends π and e to the veriﬁer.
2: The veriﬁer checks if the equation e = H(crs, u, π) holds and runs V(crs, u, π) to decide
whether to accept.
4.3. Summary of ZKP in Recent Years
We summarize the ZKP scheme from different key underlying security techniques
in Table 4. It also includes the comparison of communication complexity. Among them,
lattice-based ZKP has the ability to resist quantum attacks. In recent years, the research is
devoted to solving the problem of the low efﬁciency of proof generation, and the problem
of insufﬁcient universality of underlying assumptions. The series of zero-knowledge proofs
that the system parameters can be independently and publicly generated in the start-up
stage also appear due to the high credibility requirement in the initialization stage without
pretreatment and credibility initialization.
Table 4. Summary of zero-knowledge proof in recent 5 years. Comm. is short for communication.
F denotes the ﬁeld elements and G denotes the group elements. CM represents the number of
multiplication gates in the circuit. The data-parallel circuits can be divided into N sub-circuits with
width g and depth d. Let λ be a security parameter. βSIS denotes the Module-SIS solution norm. n
denotes the required dimension in the lattice problem.
Scheme
Year
Comm. Complexity
Security
GKMMM18 [33]
2018
3G
Bilinear group
Hyrax [34]
2018
O(d log Ng)G
Sum-check protocol
KKW18 [35]
2018
O(Ngd)F
MPC-in-the-Head
Bulletproofs [36]
2018
O(log |CM|)G
Inner product argument
HKR19 [37]
2019
O(log |CM|)G
Inner product argument
Libra [38]
2019
O(d log Ngd)GF
Sum-check protocol

----- PAGE 11/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
11 of 20
Table 4. Cont.
Scheme
Year
Comm. Complexity
Security
Stark [39]
2019
O(log Ngd)F
Reed Solomon code
Aurora [40]
2019
O(log n)F
Reed Solomon code
YAZ19 [41]
2019
˜O(n2)
Lattice
ESLL19 [42]
2019
˜O(λ log2 βSIS)
Lattice
BLS19 [43]
2019
˜O(n)
Lattice
DRZ20 [44]
2020
O(log |CM|)G
Inner product argument
Spartan [45]
2020
O(√n)G
Sum-check protocol
Virgo [46]
2020
O(d log Ngd)F
Sum-check protocol
Ligero++ [47]
2020
O(log Ngd)F
MPC-in-the-Head
LNS20 [48]
2020
˜O(n)
Lattice
BooLigero [49]
2021
O((Ngd)1/2)
(log |F|)1/2 F ∼O((Ngd)1/2)
(log |F|)1/4 F
MPC-in-the-Head
Limbo [50]
2021
O(Ngd)F
MPC-in-the-Head
Virgo++ [51]
2021
min(O(Ngd), O(d log Ngd + d2))F
Sum-check protocol
LNP22 [52]
2022
˜O(n)
Lattice
5. Zero-Knowledge Authentication in IoT
Traditional authentication techniques hope to rely on various private factors of the
users but not reveal them. However, with the popularization of smart IoT devices, this
idea is no longer being realized since smart devices are vulnerable and private data are
everywhere It is easy for attackers to intercept privacy data and steal them. ZKP can be
used to prove the truth of someone’s statement without leaking any knowledge of the
said statement. With the help of ZKP, the identity of the user would be encoded as a
hard problem by the prover. Then, the veriﬁer can authenticate the identity using zero-
knowledge proof systems. Therefore, ZKP can be used for authentication using anonymous
communications. We describe a basic ZKP-based authentication protocol proposed by [53]
in Algorithm 4.
Algorithm 4 Zero-knowledge Authentication.
Require: Password and username of the client
Ensure: Accept or Reject
1: Initialization: Server provides a group G and randomly chooses a g from G. Then, set
the public key as (G, g).
2: Registration: A user inputs their username and password. The password of the user is
hashed by a hash function, i.e., X = Hash(password). The user computes for Y = gX
and sends it to the server. Then, the username and Y are stored by the server.
3: Authentication: The server picks random a, stores it, and sends to the user. The
user samples a random rX ∈G, and computes T1 = grX, c = Hash(Y, T1, a) and
zX = rX −cX. Then, he sends (c, zX) to the server. The server calculates T2 = YcgzX
and checks whether c = Hash(Y, T2, a) holds or not. If the equality holds, then the
server outputs accept; otherwise, the outputs reject.
Compared to traditional public key-based cryptographic tools, ZKP is a more secure
method in IoT with smaller computational requirements, which we summariezed in Table 5.
However, they may not be suitable for IoT since traditional ZKP schemes are usually
not efﬁcient. Hence, we explore the efﬁcient, functional, and secure implementation of
different applications of ZKP in IoT with anonymous communications. We will categorize
the ZKP-based authentication in IoT by various networks and properties, and summarize
it in Table 6. Furthermore, we summarize why ZKP works in IoT.

----- PAGE 12/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
12 of 20
Table 5. Comparison between ZKP-based authentication and PKI-based authentication.
Scheme
Property
Decentration
MIMA
ZKP
✓
✓
PKI
CA-based
×
✓
non-CA-based
✓
×
5.1. The Strengths of ZKP in IoT
Traditional ZKP schemes are usually not efﬁcient. However, ZKP is still increasingly
used in IoT because of its unique properties. Overall, ZKP has two major advantages that
cause it to be an important technology to protect privacy.
The ﬁrst reason is that ZKP has the property of zero knowledge. In traditional authen-
tication schemes, the smart IoT devices must store large amounts of authentication data,
which may put this data at risk. However, in ZKP, the veriﬁer or other person will not learn
anything from the interactive part, which can effectively protect data privacy. This enables
ZKP to implement the following two properties.
•
Anonymity. Aiming at concealing the real identities of users during communications,
IoT needs to provide complete and mutual anonymity for each node. However,
conventional proxy-based techniques fail to support authentication. Zero-knowledge
of ZKP naturally enables anonymity and supports authentication. Furthermore,
ZKP can be extended to anonymous communications, anonymous payments, and
anonymous access.
•
Man-in-the-middle Resistance. MIMA (Man-in-the-middle attack.) refers to an intruder
that can establish independent connections and can arbitrarily access, modify, and
relay messages between two parties without either party recognizing that the links
between them have been compromised. ZKP binds the user’s information and the key
exchange data. When binding the proof, any attempts to modify the messages cannot
pass the veriﬁcation of legitimate users. Following this idea, ZKP-based schemes can
also avoid forgery, password attacks, replay attacks, tracking, etc.
The second reason is that ZKP has a relatively low overhead. For example, if the sym-
metric cryptography is used to establish secure communication over insecure channels,
the overhead of securely transmitting the symmetric keys is very high since the amount
of IoT devices is very giant. On the other hand, public key infrastructure (PKI) needs
high computational complexity. This is because, for the environment of IoT, most public
key cryptosystems are not lightweight enough. ZKP is comparatively lightweight. It can
effectively reduce computational complexity and communication complexity by combining
them with other technologies.
•
Reduction in Computational Complexity. In IoT devices, M-ZAS [54] is 3 times more
efﬁcient than GMW-ZKP and even 7 times more efﬁcient than traditional authentica-
tion mechanisms because it has multiple individual graphs instead of a single one.
Compared with the two ECDSA-based authentication schemes, TinyECC [55] and
WM-ECC [56], TinyZKP [57] operates 1.9× and 1.4× faster and has 48% and 28%
lower energy costs, respectively. BANZKP [58] combines ZKP and a commitment
scheme. Compared to TinyZKP [57], it is 17 times more efﬁcient in running time with
94.11% less energy.
•
Reduction in Communication Complexity. The elliptic curve-based ZKP [59] has a smaller
code. Moreover, the exchanged information is well suited to the technical speci-
ﬁcations of the standard IEEE 802.15.4 scheme. For the authentication challenge,
Walshe et al. [60] replaced the original ZKP-based hard problem with a Merkle tree
structure that grows a challenge package with a minimum number of requirements.
LiteZKP [61] reduces the energy consumption and latency of IoT edge-computing
platforms by more than 55%.

----- PAGE 13/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
13 of 20
Now, we compare ZKP-based authentication and PKI-based authentication in Table 5.
There are two models in the Public Key Infrastructure (PKI): CA-based and non-CA-based.
In CA-based authentication, a commonly trusted third party is required to ensure the
validity of the binding of a user public key and their identity. However, this CA-based
model is not suitable for decentralized environments. In non-CA-based authentication,
users use their public keys as the pseudonyms. Further, the self-signed certiﬁcate is used to
authenticate the reality of a peer’s pseudonym. This technique can provide anonymity for
vender and vendee in a “face-to-face” scenario. However, this technique cannot resist the
MIMA. In short, ZKP obtains the trade-off between privacy protection and overhead.
5.2. Classiﬁcation by Networks
5.2.1. Applications in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks
A mobile ad hoc network (MANET) is a multi-hop mobility peer-to-peer network
consisting of from tens to hundreds of mobile devices that are dynamically networked
using wireless communication methods. Mobile devices often do not have access to the
network in many places due to their mobility. Therefore, a legitimate node with a network
connection may wish to rent its connection to other legitimate devices. For this task, Martín-
Fernández et al. [62] design a NIZK-based authentication for two devices to build a shared
secret session key and exchange conﬁdential data. In this work, a node can authenticate
its own legitimacy to join another legitimate user’s communication session by decrypting
and verifying all of the commitments broadcast by another user. It can be concluded that
the scheme [62] from the implementations is computationally faster compared to other
related work.
5.2.2. Applications in Vehicular Networks
As a special type of MANET, the vehicle network is to achieve an efﬁcient trafﬁc
management communication network between sensors, controls, and actuators within a
vehicle connected in a complex mesh of point-to-point wires. The main goal of vehicle
networks is to achieve efﬁcient trafﬁc management to prevent desirable conditions on the
roads. However, the connected but malicious vehicles in the networks can send false trafﬁc
and vehicular data to the centralized trafﬁc management system and its data center. In this
case, the centralized trafﬁc management system and its data center should have the ability
to authenticate the data obtained from vehicular networks. This issue can be solved using
Martín-Fernández et al.’s work [62] based on NIZK.
5.2.3. Applications in Wireless Sensors Networks
A wireless sensor network (WSN) is a framework of the network formed by organizing
and combining tens of thousands of sensor nodes in a free-form manner through wireless
communication technology. Its security includes WSN internal communication security
and data security; the goal is to resist external intrusion and to ensure the node security and
sensory data’s conﬁdentiality, integrity, authenticity, etc. Based on preloaded parameters in
existing WSN models, the generated shared key designed by Martín-Fernández et al. [62] is
exploited as a broadcast key for smart IoT devices. Walshe et al. [60] exploited the Merkle
tree structure instead of ZKP for creating authentication challenges in WSN. The simulation
results indicate that this approach is suitable for authentication in resource-constrained
IoT environments.
5.2.4. Applications in Wireless Body Area Networks
A wireless body area network (WBAN) is a communication technology centered on the
human body and composed of various network elements related to the human body. These
elements include personal terminals, sensors distributed around and even inside the human
body, and networking devices. It is mainly used for monitoring human sensor networks
and human health, or for applications centered on cell phones or mobile devices. Due to the
speciﬁcity of WBAN in healthcare applications, its security requirements are conﬁdentiality,

----- PAGE 14/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
14 of 20
and private information protection. A lightweight authentication scheme was proposed by
Ma et al. [57] for WBAN, called TinyZKP. Compared to traditional ECDSA-based (Elliptic
curve digital signature algorithm.) authentication schemes, the simulation results indicate
that the performance of TinyZKP is better in terms of time cost and energy cost.
5.2.5. Applications in Crowdsourcing IoT
Crowdsourcing refers to the practice of a company or organization outsourcing work
tasks previously performed by employees to non-speciﬁc (and often large) mass volunteers
on a free and voluntary basis. Crowdsourcing IoT allows for remotely accessing information
of all of these devices securely through a wireless channel by a home gateway node or a
server that acts as a bridge between smart devices and the home users. A remote multi-
factor authentication scheme was proposed by Liu et al. [63], which has three factors:
identities, passwords, and biometrics of users. They achieve this goal with zero-knowledge
proof based on a chaotic map-based computational Difﬁe–Hellman problem (CMCDHP),
which has lower computational overhead and smaller key size. Moreover, the authors
proved the strong forward security, which is more suitable in ﬁfth generation mobile
communication. Hence, this work is ideal for smart devices with limited power, as well as
5G technology.
5.3. Classiﬁcation by Properties
5.3.1. Anonymity
Anonymity means that the communicating parties do not need each other to trust
themselves by disclosing their identities. In the cloud-based radio over optical-ﬁber net-
works (C-RoFN), Yuan et al. [64] proposed an anonymous access system using ZKP for
blockchain-based IoT devices. The operator computes the divided identity block data
while the device evaluates the total digital identity using ZKP. This approach completes the
device’s anonymous access to IoT. With a smart contract-based ZKP, Bools et al. [61] present
a framework for supporting multiple anonymous payments, called LiteZKP. In this work,
Alice sends ETH to Bob using ZKP. Then, the veriﬁer (smart contract) checks the condition
without revealing the public key of Alice. Hence, it offered a fully anonymous system.
Furthermore, to reduce the number of ZKP operations, LiteZKP used Merkle tree machines
and integrates ZKP into an off-chain payment channel. Dwivedi et al. [8] also provide an
efﬁcient ZKP-based authentication system to realize the legitimate users’ anonymity.
5.3.2. Decentralization
As IBM said, the extension of IoT is renovated from a trusted, costly, and central-
ized framework to a self-managed and self-regulating decentralized architecture [65].
Chuang et al. [54] proposed an authentication system (M-ZAS) that is not only lightweight
but also highly adaptive and is based on multi-graph ZKP. Especially, compared to other
centralized approaches, M-ZAS is more ﬂexible for IoT without a centralized controller. It
also provided higher performance, lower transmission, and better security protection than
GMW-ZKP and other traditional authentication mechanisms do. Furthermore, ZKP-based
authentication is used in blockchain-based IoT. Li et al. [66] proposed a decentralized and
location-aware architecture in privacy-preserving blockchain-based trafﬁc management
systems. The traveling vehicle sends the messages encrypted by a NIZK-based range proof
scheme to the gateway to verify its information. The gateway is for the traveling vehicle
logs into an entering trafﬁc management system. For real-time trafﬁc management, the
experiment results indicate that this method is more effective and feasible. Guo et al. [67]
usesd ZKP to realize the identity veriﬁcation mechanism in the blockchain environment.
5.3.3. Post Quantum
Quantum algorithms, such as the Shor algorithm [68], will solve hard problems such
as discrete logarithm and factorization problems in quantum computers in polynomial time.
Therefore, traditional public key cryptosystems such as RSA, DSA, and ECDSA will become

----- PAGE 15/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
15 of 20
insecure for post-quantum. Akleylek et al. [69] propose a lattice-based authentication
scheme for IoT technologies such as RFID systems, which also satisﬁes the zero-knowledge
property.
Table 6. ZKP-based Authentication in IoT.
Scheme
Year
Features
[70]
2014
M2M
[57]
2014
WBAN
[62]
2016
MANET
[54]
2017
Decentration
[60]
2019
WSN
[63]
2020
Crowdsourcing IoT
[66]
2020
Decentration; Trafﬁc management
[64]
2021
Anonymity; Decentration; Access control
[71]
2021
WSN; Improving efﬁciency
[8]
2021
Anonymity
[61]
2021
Anonymity; Decentration; Blockchain
[69]
2022
Post-quantum
[67]
2022
Decentration; Fabric Blockchain
6. Challenges and Future Research Directions
Some eternal issues of ZKP in IoT are discussed here: security and efﬁciency. In
addition, we outline several possible further research directions in Table 7.
Table 7. Summary of future direction in ZKP-based IoT.
Direction
Requirements
Challenges
5G
Reliable resilience, low latency, highly scalable,
and high data rates with ﬁne-grained networks
Data privacy
Decentralization
No third-party key distribution platform or
trusted and fair management platform
Limited memory
resource
Post-quantum
Resist quantum computing attacks
Lightweight
algorithm
6.1. The Challenge of ZKP in IoT
•
Lighter. The existing ZKP models are continuously optimized to adapt to complex IoT
network environments. However, with the advent of the 5G era, the demand for real-
time communication has increased, such as in the live broadcasting industry. Lighter
algorithms are always worth investigating and ZKP still has space for optimization.
For example, the scheme of Walshe et al. [60] provided optimal cryptographic methods
for obtaining node data while verifying the Merkle tree’s creation. We can choose a
more efﬁcient mathematical structure to improve the efﬁciency, such as lattice.
•
Safer. The security of ZKP in IoT depends on mathematically hard assumptions,
including graph isomorphism and discrete logarithm. Hence, ZKP can resist main
attacks, such as MIMA, forgery, password attacks, replay attacks, tracking, etc. How-
ever, there are some security holes to consider. All traditional secure transport layer
schemes, such as TLS, are vulnerable to cross-protocol attacks if the pre-shared key
exploits the Difﬁe–Helman parameters [72]. There may be some backdoors in IoT
operating systems that could lead to some over-privileged nodes accessing sensitive
data at any time [73]. How to use ZKP to meet higher security requirements is still
worth considering.

----- PAGE 16/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
16 of 20
6.2. Further Research Direction
6.2.1. ZKP in 5G-IoT
The 5th generation mobile communication technology (5G) is a new generation of
broadband mobile communication technology with high speed, low latency, and large
connectivity, and 5G communication facilities are the network infrastructure to realize the
interconnection of people, machines, and things. In 5G, billions of smart IoT devices can
interact and share data without any assistance from humans. Much research work has been
performed on the challenges of 5G IoT, including reliable resilience, low latency, highly
scalable, and high data rates using ﬁne-grained networks [74]. The security of various
5G-IoT systems is very complicated. The designers must consider both remote software
intrusion and local device intrusion. It is worth studying how ZKP is applied to 5G-IoT to
protect data privacy.
6.2.2. ZKP in Decentralized IoT
Decentralization refers to a system with a large number of nodes distributed where
each node has a high degree of autonomy. There is no third-party key distribution platform
or a trusted and fair management platform in blockchain-based IoT. We call it the decen-
tralized IoT, which has high efﬁciency in processing without the limitations of third-party
centricity. However, most of these efforts do not take into account threat traceability across
the different endpoint lifecycles of the IoT [75]. Thus, in the cycle of these terminals, ZKP
can implement effective threat tracking to avoid unnecessary security and privacy leaks
when deploying IoT devices.
Furthermore, Wu et al. [76] describe a distributed zero-knowledge proof system
(DIZK) that distributes the generation of a ZKP across multiple machines. Traditional ZKP
systems are “monolithic”, so they are limited by the memory resources of a single machine,
which is not suitable for decentralized IoT. At the same time, traditional ZKP systems are
limited by a single machine’s memory resources, which is not suitable for the decentralized
IoT. The combination of distributed ZKP and distributed IoT is an interesting direction.
6.2.3. ZKP in Post-Quantum IoT
Quantum computation greatly threatens public-key encryption systems, such as ellip-
tic curve cryptography and Difﬁe–Hellman. These public key cryptographic algorithms are
the key factors for the construction of ZKP models in IoT. The restrictions of IoT devices
involving intensive mathematical computations require a large number of computational
resources, which poses a related challenge to the development of IoT [77]. To date, code-
based [78], super-singular elliptic curve isogeny [79], multivariate [80], lattice-based [81],
and hybrid schemes [82] are ﬁve important types of post-quantum algorithms. Since
latticed-based ZKP [41] is an effective post-quantum algorithm, it is worth researching
efﬁcient and secure ZKP-based IoT that holds the overhead of storing and manipulating
large ciphertexts and large keys.
7. Conclusions
No doubt, IoT plays an important role in the future of the digital economy era. Un-
fortunately, user privacy is threatened due to resource-constrained devices and networks.
Although the issues of the privacy and security of IoT have grown signiﬁcantly in recent
years; the zero-knowledge proofs (ZKP) system used in IoT still attracts increasing amounts
of attention because of the unique properties of ZKP. In this paper, we present a summary
of the security issues for the IoT, and then discuss the development process and advan-
tages of ZKP-based authentication in IoT in detail. Finally, we propose a lighter and safer
challenge in ZKP. Moreover, we introduced future development directions including 5G,
decentralization, and post-quantum in IoT.

----- PAGE 17/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
17 of 20
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, Y.J.; methodology, Y.J.; validation, Z.C.; formal analysis,
Z.C.; investigation, X.S.; supervision, Z.C. and L.C. All authors have read and agreed to the published
version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was partially supported by Zhejiang Province Public Welfare Technology
Application Research, grant number LGF22F020001.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1.
Goldwasser, S.; Micali, S.; Rackoff, C. The Knowledge Complexity of Interactive Proof Systems. SIAM J. Comput. 1989, 18, 186–208.
[CrossRef]
2.
Kumar, J.S.; Patel, D.R. A survey on internet of things: Security and privacy issues. Int. J. Comput. Appl. 2014, 90, 20–26.
3.
Yu, S.; Ren, K.; Lou, W. FDAC: Toward Fine-Grained Distributed Data Access Control in Wireless Sensor Networks. IEEE Trans.
Parallel Distrib. Syst. 2011, 22, 673–686. [CrossRef]
4.
Picazo-Sanchez, P.; Tapiador, J.E.; Peris-Lopez, P.; Suarez-Tangil, G. Secure Publish-Subscribe Protocols for Heterogeneous
Medical Wireless Body Area Networks. Sensors 2014, 14, 22619–22642. [CrossRef]
5.
Hu, C.; Zhang, J.; Wen, Q. An identity-based personal location system with protected privacy in IOT. In Proceedings of the 2011
4th IEEE International Conference on Broadband Network and Multimedia Technology, Shenzhen, China, 28–30 October 2011;
pp. 192–195.
6.
Liu, J.; Xiao, Y.; Chen, C.P. Internet of things’ authentication and access control. Int. J. Secur. Netw. 2012, 7, 228–241. [CrossRef]
7.
Kalra, S.; Sood, S.K. Secure authentication scheme for IoT and cloud servers. Pervasive Mob. Comput. 2015, 24, 210–223. [CrossRef]
8.
Dwivedi, A.D.; Singh, R.; Ghosh, U.; Mukkamala, R.R.; Tolba, A.; Said, O. Privacy preserving authentication system based on
non-interactive zero knowledge proof suitable for Internet of Things. J. Ambient. Intell. Humaniz. Comput. 2021, 13, 4639–4649.
[CrossRef]
9.
Eschenauer, L.; Gligor, V.D. A key-management scheme for distributed sensor networks.
In Proceedings of the 9th ACM
Conference on Computer and Communications Security, CCS 2002, Washington, DC, USA, 18–22 November 2002; Atluri, V., Ed.;
ACM: New York, NY, USA, 2002; pp. 41–47.
10.
Liu, D.; Ning, P. Establishing Pairwise Keys in Distributed Sensor Networks. In Proceedings of the 10th ACM Conference
on Computer and Communications Security, CCS ’03, Washington, DC, USA, 27–30 October 2003; Association for Computing
Machinery: New York, NY, USA, 2003; pp. 52–61.
11.
Du, W.; Deng, J.; Han, Y.S.; Varshney, P.K.; Katz, J.; Khalili, A. A Pairwise Key Predistribution Scheme for Wireless Sensor
Networks. ACM Trans. Inf. Syst. Secur. 2005, 8, 228–258. [CrossRef]
12.
Venkatasubramanian, K.; Banerjee, A.; Gupta, S. EKG-based key agreement in Body Sensor Networks. In Proceedings of the
IEEE INFOCOM Workshops 2008, Phoenix, AZ, USA, 13–18 April 2008; pp. 1–6.
13.
Bonetto, R.; Bui, N.; Lakkundi, V.; Olivereau, A.; Serbanati, A.; Rossi, M. Secure communication for smart IoT objects: Protocol
stacks, use cases and practical examples. In Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE International Symposium on a World of Wireless,
Mobile and Multimedia Networks (WoWMoM), San Francisco, CA, USA, 25–28 June 2012; pp. 1–7.
14.
Vuˇcini´c, M.; Tourancheau, B.; Rousseau, F.; Duda, A.; Damon, L.; Guizzetti, R. OSCAR: Object security architecture for the
Internet of Things. Ad Hoc Netw. 2015, 32, 3–16.
15.
Ukil, A.; Bandyopadhyay, S.; Joseph, J.; Banahatti, V.; Lodha, S. Negotiation-Based Privacy Preservation Scheme in Internet of
Things Platform. In Proceedings of the First International Conference on Security of Internet of Things, Kollam, India, 17–19
August 2012; Association for Computing Machinery: New York, NY, USA, 2012; pp. 75–84. [CrossRef]
16.
Doukas, C.; Maglogiannis, I.; Kouﬁ, V.; Malamateniou, F.; Vassilacopoulos, G. Enabling data protection through PKI encryption
in IoT m-Health devices. In Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE 12th International Conference on Bioinformatics Bioengineering (BIBE),
Larnaca, Cyprus, 11–13 November 2012; pp. 25–29.
17.
Yi, X.; Bouguettaya, A.; Georgakopoulos, D.; Song, A.; Willemson, J. Privacy Protection for Wireless Medical Sensor Data. IEEE
Trans. Dependable Secur. Comput. 2016, 13, 369–380. [CrossRef]
18.
¸Sim¸sek, M.; ¸Sentürk, A. Fast and lightweight detection and ﬁltering method for low-rate TCP targeted distributed denial of
service (LDDoS) attacks. Int. J. Commun. Syst. 2018, 31, e3823. [CrossRef]
19.
Sava¸scı ¸Sen, S.; Cicio˘glu, M.; Çalhan, A. IoT-based GPS assisted surveillance system with inter-WBAN geographic routing for
pandemic situations. J. Biomed. Inform. 2021, 116, 103731. [CrossRef]
20.
Turkyilmaz, Y.; Senturk, A.; Bayrakdar, M.E. Employing machine learning based malicious signal detection for cognitive radio
networks. Concurr. Comput. Pract. Exp. 2023, 35, e7457. [CrossRef]
21.
Jiang, H.; Shen, F.; Chen, S.; Li, K.C.; Jeong, Y.S. A secure and scalable storage system for aggregate data in IoT. Future Gener.
Comput. Syst. 2015, 49, 133–141. [CrossRef]
22.
Kim, T.H.; Ramos, C.; Mohammed, S. Smart city and IoT. Future Gener. Comput. Syst. 2017, 76, 159–162. [CrossRef]
23.
Chandrakar, P.; Sinha, S.; Ali, R. Cloud-based authenticated protocol for healthcare monitoring system. J. Ambient Intell. Humaniz.
Comput. 2020, 11, 3431–3447. [CrossRef]

----- PAGE 18/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
18 of 20
24.
Malik, H.; Zatar, W. Agent based routing approach to support structural health monitoring-informed, intelligent transportation
system. J. Ambient Intell. Humaniz. Comput. 2020, 11, 1031–1043. [CrossRef]
25.
Melis, A.; Prandini, M.; Sartori, L.; Callegati, F. Public transportation, IoT, trust and urban habits.
In Proceedings of the
International Conference on Internet Science, Florence, Italy, 12–14 September 2016; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2016;
pp. 318–325.
26.
Raj, J.S.; Ananthi, J.V. Automation using IoT in greenhouse environment. J. Inf. Technol. 2019, 1, 38–47.
27.
Jurcut, A.D.; Ranaweera, P.; Xu, L. Introduction to IoT Security. In IoT Security: Advances in Authentication; Wiley: Hoboken, NJ,
USA, 2020; pp. 27–64.
28.
Kim, H.; Lee, E.A. Authentication and Authorization for the Internet of Things. IT Prof. 2017, 19, 27–33. [CrossRef]
29.
Höglund, J.; Lindemer, S.; Furuhed, M.; Raza, S. PKI4IoT: Towards public key infrastructure for the Internet of Things. Comput.
Secur. 2020, 89, 101658. [CrossRef]
30.
Marino, F.; Moiso, C.; Petracca, M. PKIoT: A public key infrastructure for the Internet of Things. Trans. Emerg. Telecommun.
Technol. 2019, 30, e3681. [CrossRef]
31.
Goldreich, O.; Micali, S.; Wigderson, A. Proofs that Yield Nothing However, Their Validity for All Languages in NP Have
Zero-Knowledge Proof Systems. J. ACM 1991, 38, 691–729. [CrossRef]
32.
Blum, M.; Feldman, P.; Micali, S. Non-Interactive Zero-Knowledge and Its Applications (Extended Abstract). In Proceedings of
the 20th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, Chicago, IL, USA, 2–4 May 1988; Simon, J., Ed.; ACM: New York,
NY, USA, 1988; pp. 103–112.
33.
Groth, J.; Kohlweiss, M.; Maller, M.; Meiklejohn, S.; Miers, I. Updatable and Universal Common Reference Strings with
Applications to zk-SNARKs. In Proceedings of the Advances in Cryptology–CRYPTO 2018, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, 19–23
August 2018; Shacham, H., Boldyreva, A., Eds.; Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2018; pp. 698–728.
34.
Wahby, R.S.; Tzialla, I.; Shelat, A.; Thaler, J.; Walﬁsh, M. Doubly-Efﬁcient zkSNARKs Without Trusted Setup. In Proceedings of
the 2018 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, SP 2018, San Francisco, CA, USA, 21–23 May 2018; pp. 926–943.
35.
Katz, J.; Kolesnikov, V.; Wang, X. Improved Non-Interactive Zero Knowledge with Applications to Post-Quantum Signatures. In
Proceedings of the 2018 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, Toronto, ON, Canada, 15–19
Octtober 2018; pp. 525–537.
36.
Bünz, B.; Bootle, J.; Boneh, D.; Poelstra, A.; Wuille, P.; Maxwell, G. Bulletproofs: Short Proofs for Conﬁdential Transactions
and More. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, SP, San Francisco, CA, USA, 20–24 May 2018;
pp. 315–334.
37.
Hoffmann, M.; Klooß, M.; Rupp, A. Efﬁcient Zero-Knowledge Arguments in the Discrete Log Setting, Revisited. In Proceed-
ings of the 2019 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, London, UK, 11–15 November 2019;
pp. 2093–2110.
38.
Xie, T.; Zhang, J.; Zhang, Y.; Papamanthou, C.; Song, D. Libra: Succinct Zero-Knowledge Proofs with Optimal Prover Computation.
In Proceedings of the Advances in Cryptology—CRYPTO 2019—39th Annual International Cryptology Conference, Santa Barbara,
CA, USA, 18–22 August 2019; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2019; Volume 11694, pp. 733–764.
39.
Ben-Sasson, E.; Bentov, I.; Horesh, Y.; Riabzev, M. Scalable Zero Knowledge with No Trusted Setup. In Proceedings of the
Advances in Cryptology—CRYPTO 2019—39th Annual International Cryptology Conference, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, 18–22
August 2019; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2019; Volume 11694, pp. 701–732.
40.
Ben-Sasson, E.; Chiesa, A.; Riabzev, M.; Spooner, N.; Virza, M.; Ward, N.P. Aurora: Transparent Succinct Arguments for R1CS. In
Proceedings of the Advances in Cryptology—EUROCRYPT 2019—38th Annual International Conference on the Theory and
Applications of Cryptographic Techniques, Darmstadt, Germany, 19–23 May 2019; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2019;
Volume 11476, pp. 103–128.
41.
Esgin, M.F.; Steinfeld, R.; Liu, J.K.; Liu, D. Lattice-Based Zero-Knowledge Proofs: New Techniques for Shorter and Faster Construc-
tions and Applications. In Proceedings of the Advances in Cryptology—CRYPTO 2019—39th Annual International Cryptology
Conference, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, 18–22 August 2019; Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D., Eds.; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg,
Germany, 2019; Volume 11692; pp. 115–146.
42.
Yang, R.; Au, M.H.; Zhang, Z.; Xu, Q.; Yu, Z.; Whyte, W. Efﬁcient Lattice-Based Zero-Knowledge Arguments with Standard
Soundness: Construction and Applications. In Proceedings of the Advances in Cryptology—CRYPTO 2019, Santa Barbara, CA,
USA, 18–22 August 2019; Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2019; pp. 147–175.
43.
Bootle, J.; Lyubashevsky, V.; Seiler, G. Algebraic Techniques for Short(er) Exact Lattice-Based Zero-Knowledge Proofs.
In
Proceedings of the Advances in Cryptology—CRYPTO 2019—39th Annual International Cryptology Conference, Santa Barbara,
CA, USA, 18–22 August 2019; Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D., Eds.; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, German, 2019; Volume 11692,
pp. 176–202. [CrossRef]
44.
Daza, V.; Ràfols, C.; Zacharakis, A. Updateable Inner Product Argument with Logarithmic Veriﬁer and Applications.
In
Proceedings of the Public-Key Cryptography—PKC 2020, Edinburgh, UK, 4–7 May 2020; Springer International Publishing:
Cham, Switzerland, 2020; pp. 527–557.
45.
Setty, S.T.V. Spartan: Efﬁcient and General-Purpose zkSNARKs Without Trusted Setup. In Proceedings of the Advances in
Cryptology—CRYPTO 2020—40th Annual International Cryptology Conference, CRYPTO 2020, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, 17–21
August 2020; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2020; Volume 12172, pp. 704–737.

----- PAGE 19/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
19 of 20
46.
Zhang, J.; Xie, T.; Zhang, Y.; Song, D. Transparent Polynomial Delegation and Its Applications to Zero Knowledge Proof. In
Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, SP, San Francisco, CA, USA, 18–21 May 2020; pp. 859–876.
47.
Bhadauria, R.; Fang, Z.; Hazay, C.; Venkitasubramaniam, M.; Xie, T.; Zhang, Y. Ligero++: A New Optimized Sublinear IOP. In
Proceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security CCS ’20, Virtual, 9–13 November
2020; pp. 2025–2038.
48.
Lyubashevsky, V.; Nguyen, N.K.; Seiler, G. Practical Lattice-Based Zero-Knowledge Proofs for Integer Relations. In Proceedings
of the CCS ’20: 2020 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, Virtual, 9–13 November 2020;
pp. 1051–1070.
49.
Gvili, Y.; Schefﬂer, S.; Varia, M. BooLigero: Improved Sublinear Zero Knowledge Proofs for Boolean Circuits. In Proceedings
of the Financial Cryptography and Data Security—25th International Conference, FC 2021, Virtual, 1–5 March 2021; Springer:
Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2021; Volume 12674, pp. 476–496.
50.
de Saint Guilhem, C.D.; Orsini, E.; Tanguy, T. Limbo: Efﬁcient Zero-knowledge MPCitH-based Arguments. In Proceedings
of the CCS ’21: 2021 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, Virtual, 15–19 November 2021;
pp. 3022–3036.
51.
Zhang, J.; Liu, T.; Wang, W.; Zhang, Y.; Song, D.; Xie, X.; Zhang, Y. Doubly Efﬁcient Interactive Proofs for General Arithmetic
Circuits with Linear Prover Time. In Proceedings of the 2021 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, Virtual, 15–19 November 2021; pp. 159–177.
52.
Lyubashevsky, V.; Nguyen, N.K.; Plançon, M. Lattice-Based Zero-Knowledge Proofs and Applications: Shorter, Simpler, and
More General. In Proceedings of the Advances in Cryptology—CRYPTO 2022: 42nd Annual International Cryptology Conference,
CRYPTO 2022, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, 15–18 August 2022; p. 284.
53.
Implementing Zero-Knowledge Authentication with Zero Knowledge (ZKA_wzk). Available online: http://hydra.azilian.net/
Papers/Zero-knowledge-protocol.pdf (accessed on 20 July 2022).
54.
Chuang, I.H.; Guo, B.J.; Tsai, J.S.; Kuo, Y.H. Multi-graph Zero-knowledge-based authentication system in Internet of Things. In
Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC), Paris, France, 221–25 May 2017; pp. 1–6.
55.
Wang, W.; Cui, Y.; Chen, T. Design and implementation of an ECDSA-based identity authentication protocol on WSN. In
Proceedings of the 2009 3rd IEEE International Symposium on Microwave, Antenna, Propagation and EMC Technologies for
Wireless Communications, Beijing, China, 27–29 October 2009; pp. 1202–1205.
56.
Wang, H.; Sheng, B.; Tan, C.C.; Li, Q. Public-key based access control in sensornet. Wirel. Netw. 2011, 17, 1217–1234. [CrossRef]
57.
Ma, L.; Ge, Y.; Zhu, Y. TinyZKP: A lightweight authentication scheme based on zero-knowledge proof for wireless body area
networks. Wirel. Pers. Commun. 2014, 77, 1077–1090. [CrossRef]
58.
Khernane, N.; Potop-Butucaru, M.; Chaudet, C. BANZKP: A Secure Authentication Scheme Using Zero Knowledge Proof for
WBANs. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE 13th International Conference on Mobile Ad Hoc and Sensor Systems (MASS), Brasilia,
Brazil, 10–13 October 2016; pp. 307–315.
59.
Chatzigiannakis, I.; Pyrgelis, A.; Spirakis, P.G.; Stamatiou, Y.C.
Elliptic Curve Based Zero Knowledge Proofs and Their
Applicability on Resource Constrained Devices. In Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE Eighth International Conference on Mobile
Ad-Hoc and Sensor Systems, Valencia, Spain, 17–22 October 2011; pp. 715–720.
60.
Walshe, M.; Epiphaniou, G.; Al-Khateeb, H.; Hammoudeh, M.; Katos, V.; Dehghantanha, A. Non-interactive zero knowledge
proofs for the authentication of IoT devices in reduced connectivity environments. Ad Hoc Netw. 2019, 95, 101988. [CrossRef]
61.
Boo, E.; Kim, J.; Ko, J. LiteZKP: Lightening Zero-Knowledge Proof-Based Blockchains for IoT and Edge Platforms. IEEE Syst. J.
2021, 16, 112–123. [CrossRef]
62.
Martín-Fernández, F.; Caballero-Gil, P.; Caballero-Gil, C. Authentication Based on Non-Interactive Zero-Knowledge Proofs for
the Internet of Things. Sensors 2016, 16, 75. [CrossRef]
63.
Liu, W.; Wang, X.; Peng, W. Secure Remote Multi-Factor Authentication Scheme Based on Chaotic Map Zero-Knowledge Proof
for Crowdsourcing Internet of Things. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 8754–8767. [CrossRef]
64.
Yuan, J.; Yang, H.; Dong, S.; Yao, Q.; Jiao, L.; Zhang, J. Demonstration of Blockchain-based IoT Devices Anonymous Access
Network Using Zero-knowledge Proof. In Proceedings of the 2020 International Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing
(IWCMC), Limassol, Cyprus, 15–19 June 2020; pp. 1607–1609.
65.
Brody, P.; Pureswaran, V. Device democracy: Saving the future of the Internet of Things. 2014.
Available online: http:
//refhub.elsevier.com/S1084-8045(18)30347-3/sref27 (accessed on 15 July 2015).
66.
Li, W.; Guo, H.; Nejad, M.; Shen, C.C. Privacy-Preserving Trafﬁc Management: A Blockchain and Zero-Knowledge Proof Inspired
Approach. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 181733–181743. [CrossRef]
67.
Guo, H.; Cheng, J.; Wang, J.; Chen, T.; Yuan, Y.; Li, H.; Sheng, V.S. IoT Data Blockchain-Based Transaction Model Using
Zero-Knowledge Proofs and Proxy Re-encryption. In Proceedings of the Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Security, Los Angeles, CA,
USA, 11 November 2022; pp. 573–586.
68.
Shor, P.W. Polynomial-Time Algorithms for Prime Factorization and Discrete Logarithms on a Quantum Computer. SIAM J.
Comput. 1997, 26, 1484–1509. [CrossRef]
69.
Akleylek, S.; Soysaldı, M. A new lattice-based authentication scheme for IoT. J. Inf. Secur. Appl. 2022, 64, 103053. [CrossRef]

----- PAGE 20/20 -----
Electronics 2023, 12, 1145
20 of 20
70.
Flood, P.; Schukat, M. Peer to peer authentication for small embedded systems: A zero-knowledge-based approach to security for
the Internet of Things. In Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Digital Technologies 2014, Zilina, Slovakia, 9–11
July 2014; pp. 68–72.
71.
Soewito, B.; Marcellinus, Y. IoT security system with modiﬁed Zero Knowledge Proof algorithm for authentication. Egypt. Inform.
J. 2021, 22, 269–276. [CrossRef]
72.
Mavrogiannopoulos, N.; Vercauteren, F.; Velichkov, V.; Preneel, B. A Cross-Protocol Attack on the TLS Protocol. In Proceedings of
the 2012 ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security, Raleigh, NC, USA, 16–18 October 2012; Association for
Computing Machinery: New York, NY, USA, 2012; pp. 62–72.
73.
Hashemi, S.; Zarei, M. Internet of Things backdoors: Resource management issues, security challenges, and detection methods.
Trans. Emerg. Telecommun. Technol. 2021, 32, e4142.
74.
Li, S.; Xu, L.D.; Zhao, S. 5G Internet of Things: A survey. J. Ind. Inf. Integr. 2018, 10, 1–9. [CrossRef]
75.
Qian, Y.; Jiang, Y.; Chen, J.; Zhang, Y.; Song, J.; Zhou, M.; Pustišek, M. Towards decentralized IoT security enhancement:
A blockchain approach. Comput. Electr. Eng. 2018, 72, 266–273. [CrossRef]
76.
Wu, H.; Zheng, W.; Chiesa, A.; Popa, R.A.; Stoica, I. DIZK: A Distributed Zero Knowledge Proof System. In Proceedings of the
27th USENIX Security Symposium, USENIX Security 2018, Baltimore, MD, USA, 15–17 August 2018; pp. 675–692.
77.
Fernández-Caramés, T.M. From Pre-Quantum to Post-Quantum IoT Security: A Survey on Quantum-Resistant Cryptosystems
for the Internet of Things. IEEE Internet Things J. 2020, 7, 6457–6480. [CrossRef]
78.
McEliece, R.J. A public-key cryptosystem based on algebraic. Coding Thv 1978, 4244, 114–116.
79.
Rostovtsev, A.; Stolbunov, A. Public-Key Cryptosystem Based on Isogenies. Available online: https://eprint.iacr.org/2006/145
(accessed on 20 August 2022).
80.
Ding, J.; Petzoldt, A.; Wang, L.
The Cubic Simple Matrix Encryption Scheme.
In Proceedings of the Post-Quantum
Cryptography—6th International Workshop, PQCrypto 2014, Waterloo, ON, Canada, 1–3 October 2014; Mosca, M., Ed.; Springer:
Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2014; Volume 8772, pp. 76–87.
81.
Peikert, C. Lattice Cryptography for the Internet.
In Proceedings of the Post-Quantum Cryptography—6th International
Workshop, PQCrypto 2014, Waterloo, ON, Canada, 1–3 October 2014; Mosca, M., Ed.; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany,
2014; Volume 8772, pp. 197–219.
82.
Google Blog on Google’s Experiments with a Hybrid Cryptosystem. 2016. Available online: https://security.googleblog.com/20
16/07/experimenting-with-post-quantum.html (accessed on 7 July 2016).
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
